[MUSIC]
>> Douglas Crockford: So JavaScript is
an object-oriented programming language
which, but what it thinks an object
is is different from the most
other object-oriented languages.
In JavaScript, an object is simply
a dynamic collection of properties.
Every property has a key string that
is unique within that object, and
that key string will be
associated with any value.
You can get a property from an object
by using the dot notation or
the bracket notation, they can be used,
in some cases, interchangeably.
If the bracket contains
an expression which is a string,
which is the same as a name,
then you'll get the same property.
That makes it possible to dynamically get
at things without use of a reflection API.
You can set of properties of an object
simply by assigning to those properties.
You can add new properties or modify
old properties simply by assignment,
and you can also delete properties from
an object using a delete operator.
Although, I very rarely see this used.
Generally, once an object is made,
it keeps its stuff.
One design mistake in JavaScript
is that the keys must be strings.
It would've been better if they could've
been any value, but they're not.
So you can pass any
type into the brackets,
JavaScript will turn that into a string.
So the beans, effectively,
the values have to be strings.
We have a very nice object literal
notation, JavaScript's object literal
notation was the inspiration for the Jason
data interchange format, the world's most
loved data interchange format.
>> Douglas Crockford: You've
got curly braces that identify the object,
then you've got named fields or
properties within the object.
You don't have to put quotes around the
names if the names are valid identifiers.
If they are not identifiers, then you
need to put the quotes around them.
So most object oriented programming
languages are classical.
They're all about making classes where
objects are instances of classes and
classes inherit from other classes.
JavaScript has a much simpler,
much more highly evolved design,
which is based on prototypes where
objects inherit from objects and
that's it, there are no classes.
This was the idea that
we got from the self,
which was an improvement over small talk.
But it's a really controversial idea and
most people who are writing in this
language do not understand how this really
works, but we're gonna talk about it.
So working with prototypes
is actually very easy.
You make an object that you like using
any of the techniques available for
making an object.
You can create new instances that inherit
from the object, and then you can
customize the new instances by assigning
new properties or replacing properties.
The classification and
taxonomy operations that you have to do in
a classical system aren't necessary,
which turns out to be a huge win.
So if you're working in a classical
system, when you start off,
you have to classify all the objects.
You have to figure out what are all
the objects, what are they composed of,
how are they related?
Then you make a taxonomy in which you
figure out what's going to inherit from
what, what's gonna implement what, and
it's a really complicated hierarchy.
Usually, you're doing that work at
the point in the project, usually,
the beginning,
we have the least understanding of how
the object system's actually gonna work.
Which means it's almost certain
that you're gonna get it wrong and
you see that in that things
don't compose properly.
You just can't, they don't work.
You find yourself wishing they
had multiple inheritance,
cuz there's no way to
get from here to there.
And as you layer in more and
more classes on top,
you find that that brokenness starts to
seep up into all the higher layers, and
eventually reach the point where it's so
broken that you have to refactor,
which means have to tear it all apart and
put it back together again.
Which is really dangerous, cuz there's a
chance it might not ever go back together
again, and all of that is due
to the coupling of classes.
And if you get rid of classes,
you don't have to do any of that,
which is really quite remarkable.
So the model that JavaScript provides
is sometimes called delegation,
where an object can only
do what it can do and
if there if it's asked to do
something that it can't do,
it will designate another object
to do that work on its behalf.
This is also called differential
inheritance, where each object will only
contain the material which distinguishes
it from the object that it inherits from.
The primitive in JavaScript for
making a new object is object dot create,
where we pass it an object, which
unfortunately is called a prototype, and
we make a new object that
inherits from the old one.
The word prototype here is problematic
because it's so overloaded.
All it means is, this is the object
that we want to inherit from.
So let's diagram this.
I'm gonna make up an object called mother,
which will have two properties,
a and b, whose values will be 1 and 2.
And this is the data
structure that is created.
So we've got our key value pairs and
we also have invisible
pointer to object.prototype.
So whenever you make an object literal,
it will ultimately inherit
from object.prototype.
Then if I make a daughter object,
I'll use object.create mother,
so I now have a daughter.
So I've got an empty daughter
object which inherits from
mother.
>> Douglas Crockford: So
if I say daughter.b + 2,
originally there is no value here.
So we get the inherited value of b,
then we add two to it and
store it in the daughter.
So storing operations will always
go into the top most object, but
reading operations can go all
the way down the prototype chain.
And we can have these chains
go as long as you want.
Generally, chains in this
language tend to be very shallow.
We don't get the deep hierarchies that you
tend to see in classical languages but
if you wanna go deep, you can.
Then, we can add material
to the daughter object
which has no relation to the mother
object, so we can add more stuff.
So generally, the way we'll use this
is the mother object will be where
we put the methods, and then
the instances will inherit those methods,
okay?
>> Douglas Crockford: There's also a form
Object.create (null), which will make
an object that inherits nothing.
So you get an object that does not
inherit from object.prototype.
This is handy if you want to
make something which is just
a container of stuff and you don't want to
be confused by stuff that you might
inherit from object.prototype.
So this will act much
more like a hash table.